QUESTION 1

1. What is the purpose of the Process Control Block? 
2. Describe the three categories of information present in the process control block as shown in Figure 3.13 in the text book.
3. What is being represented in Figure 3.14? 

QUESTION 2

1. Explain the meaning of a process’s instruction trace.
2. Explain the instruction trace presented in Figure 3.4 in the book. What is meant by Time-Out and by I/O Request? 
3. Explain the role of the dispatcher service in all of this. How is the dispatcher represented in Figure 3.4?

QUESTION 3

1. What is the Process Image? 
2. What two places does a process image reside? Hint: Suspended Process. 
3. What are the five generic steps involved with building a new process image? 

QUESTION 4

Using Figure 3.6, describe the process states and conditions that cause a process to transition from one state to another i.e. 1) The transition from New to Ready. 2) The transition from Ready to Running. 3), 4), etc.

QUESTION 5

Describe the difference between the monolithic kernel architecture and the process-based kernel architecture.  

Include a description about how user processes access kernel services in each model.

QUESTION 6

Describe the differences between the user control stack and a kernel control stack.

Describe the reasons for having both a user control stack and a kernel control stack.

QUESTION 7

1. Describe what it means to “Suspend a Process”. 
2. What is the benefit of suspending a process? 

QUESTION 8

1. What are the two system calls used to create and launch a new executable process in the Linux (Unix) operating system. 
2. Describe how a parent process uses these two calls to create a new child process from a given executable file.
3. What is meant by copy on write? You can use the book “Linux Kernel Development”, Section 3 found in the Supplemental Materials eLearning folder.

QUESTION 9

Does every mode switch (i.e. system call) result in a blocked process? Explain why or why not.

QUESTION 10

Describe the four mechanisms that are used to preempt a process’s execution.